README

by Homestead FBLA
Mobile Application Development 2021
GitHub - EylamTagor/HHS-FBLA-MAD-2021
Created by Eylam Tagor, Ayush Satyavarpu, and Anthony Sky Ng-Thow-Hing

[IMPORTANT NOTES]:
While Collar requires users to log in with their Google or Facebook accounts, we do not under any circumstances store or distribute ANY personal data.

When running, a network connection must be present so that Collar can successfully access its online resources

Our application can run on FireOS and AndroidOS

Our application is thoroughly debugged and error-free. However, if a bug appears, follow these steps:

Restart the application if necessary

Please feel free to utilize the integrated bug reporting system on the profile page to alert us about the issue

To get started with Collar, please refer to the installation instructions below.

[Overview]
Collar is designed as an improved version of the popular professional networking app LinkedIn. The key distinction between Collar and LinkedIn is Collar’s focus on the social responsibility of companies, a growing concern in the era of climate change and underpaid workers.

Main features of the application include the ability to:

Construct a detailed user’s profile including name, email, photos, educational experiences, work/volunteer experiences, and skills.

Sign in using a Google or Facebook account

Create Business accounts from the app, which can create job offers, display ESG (Environment, Social, and Governance) and CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) scores and visions, specifically to boast their social work and priorities.

Follow and be followed by other Collar users.

Post updates to the feed, which can be seen by followers or by surfers on the Trending tab.

Apply to Business-created job offers with a click of a button. 

Save job offers to apply to at a future time.

Search for any business or user in the entire Collar database.

Share Collar posts to Facebook for extended reach and deep social media integration.

Message other users through the mail system

Edit user profiles, including name, picture, and all other profile aspects.

Report bugs through the bug reporting system.

[Using the Application]

Prerequisites:

To run the application on a physical Android or Fire0S device
Android OS API SDK 26, (recommended API SDK 29)
Method of transferring files between computer and mobile device (e.g. Google Drive)

To run the application on your computer
Device that has Android Studio with an AVD (Android Virtual Device) emulator device enabled
Android OS API SDK 26, (recommended API SDK 29)

[Installation Instructions'
For Physical Android Device
After downloading the zipped submission folder and unzipping it on the device (using Google Drive or any other method), make sure to have the file “app-release.apk” available to open on the mobile device (this can be done by either downloading the submission folder onto the device or uploading it to Google Drive). If there appears a warning about potential harm to the device, click “Install Anyway” to proceed (the reason for the warning is that Google does not recognize apps that are not published on the Google Play Store). Once the application is installed, click “Open” to open it. 

For Android Virtual Device Emulator
Power on the emulated device from Android Studio’s AVD Manager, and find “app-release.apk” in the unzipped submission folder. Then, drag the file onto the screen of the emulated device to install it. If it does not open automatically after installation, find the app (called “Collar,” green/black/white collar-and-tie logo) in the device’s app drawer and click to open. If an error occurs on the emulator while installing the apk, make sure the emulator does not already have this apk installed on it.

To view the code
Once the zip folder is extracted, open the folder labeled “Source Code” to view the entire Android Studio project. In order to view the Java files (activities, fragments, RecyclerView adapters, etc.) go from Source Code > app > src > main > java > [any of the packages]. In order to view the xml files (layouts, drawables, values, etc.) go from Source Code > app > src > main > res > [any of the directories]. 

To view the code’s documentation
Once the zip folder is extracted, open the folder labeled “Java Documentation” to view all files automatically generated by Javadocs. It is highly recommended to open the file “index.html” in order to view all of the app’s Java code documented in a uniform manner identical to that of the official Java SE documentation.

In case the application does not run properly
In the unzipped folder, a video file named “CollarLiveDemonstration.mp4” or “CollarLiveDemonstration.mov” can demonstrate how the app functions without running it.

[Sample Data]
For users who simply want to experience every feature of this app without creating multiple accounts, businesses, and job offers, sample data has already been inserted in the database with users, businesses, and opportunities that the user can fully interact with.

[Application Walkthrough]
Initial Page: The initial page is where the user is prompted to sign in or sign up using Facebook or Google accounts.

Onboarding: In the event of a new user, the user is prompted to set up their profile by filling out their name, profile picture, job title, job/volunteer experience, education, and skills. *Navigated to from landing page if the user is new*

Home page: Here, the user can see posts from users they follow, and like the posts if they want.*Navigated to from the home icon on the left of the bottom navigation bar*

Trending page: The user can explore the most liked recent posts here, from users all around the world on Collar. They can also intuitively navigate to users who are trending and explore their profiles. *Navigated to by clicking the “Trending” tab on the right of the home page*

Search page: The user may want to search for a particular user to see their education, experience, or skills, or businesses to search for job offers, and they can do so on the search page. *Navigated to by clicking the search icon on the top of the home page*

Jobs: Job-seeking users can visit this page to see which businesses are advertising certain job offers, and they can save appealing job offers to apply for later in the saved jobs page. *Navigated to by clicking the second icon on the bottom navigation bar*

Saved Jobs: Users can view the jobs they have saved and apply to them here with a simple click of a button. *Navigated to from clicking the third icon on the bottom navigation bar*

Following: Here, users can view which users and businesses they are following. *Navigated to by clicking the 4th bottom bar icon.

Followers: Here, users can view which users are following them.*Navigated to by clicking the Followers tab on the 4th bottom bar icon page.

My Profile: Users can view their profile where they can see their profile picture, name, email, experiences, education, skills, businesses and edit all of this information. *Navigated to by clicking the 5th icon*

My Business: Here, users can control their business Collar account by viewing/updating their ESG score, their CSR vision, and job offers.*Navigated to by clicking the business icon under My Businesses on the My Profile page.*

External Profile View: Here, users can view any profile and see a user’s education, experiences, skills, etc. *Navigated to by clicking on a profile anywhere on the app, such as search*

External Business View: Here, users can view any profile and see a business’s job offers, Corporate Social Responsibility, Environmental and Social Guideline score, and more. *Navigated to by clicking on a profile anywhere on the app, such as search*

Creating Posts: Users are prompted to title their post, give a description, and provide a hashtag. *Navigated to by clicking the Floating + button on the home page*

Creating Job Offers: Users are prompted to fill in the job title, the description, and the application link. *Users go to the Business profile and click the + button(

Creating Businesses: Users can fill in ESG score, CSR report, description, name, and more to create a business. *Users click the + button on the businesses row on the my profile page*

[Social Media Integration]
Our app integrates Facebook with the ability to make Facebook posts directly through the app. Additionally, a user can create a Collar account through either Google or Facebook.

Authors
Eylam Tagor: (eylamtagor)  
Ayush Satyavarpu: (AyushSat)
Anthony Sky Ng-Thow-Hing: (skynth)

Copyright Information
The Play Store, Android OS, and Android Studio are all registered trademarks of Google, Inc.
Following image acknowledgments are consistent with the organizations’ terms of use:

["Facebook Icon"](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:F_icon.svg) image designed by [Wikimedia Commons](commons.wikimedia.org)
[“Google Icon”](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Google_%22G%22_Logo.svg) image designed by [Wikimedia Commons](commons.wikimedia.org)
